county fair second place ribbon in an empty stall Joe McKeon, Strongsville, OH Joe McKeon, Strongsville, OH


Joe McKeon, Strongsville, OH


junk car the hum of bees beneath the hood John Stevenson, Nassau, NY John Stevenson, Nassau, NY


John Stevenson, Nassau, NY


   the Christmas after we told them     artificial tree Joe McKeon, Strongsville, OH Joe McKeon, Strongsville, OH


Joe McKeon, Strongsville, OH


a bit of rust on the Chevy's fender harvest moon Terri L. French, Huntsville, AL a lightning strike gives up a flower Rob Dingman, Herkimer, NY    forest clearing      a scapula left for the moon Scott Mason, Chappaqua, NY that time of year moonlight fills his empty chair Phyllis Lee, Sebring, OH birding . . . the unfamiliar path home Julie Warther, Dover, OH winter solstice the tilt of her hospital bed Carolyn Hall, San Francisco, CA first morning firecracker papers wander the streets Josephy Robello, Novato, CA Terri L. French, Huntsville, AL Rob Dingman, Herkimer, NY Scott Mason, Chappaqua, NY Phyllis Lee, Sebring, OH Julie Warther, Dover, OH Carolyn Hall, San Francisco, CA Josephy Robello, Novato, CA


Terri L. French, Huntsville, AL


Rob Dingman, Herkimer, NY


Scott Mason, Chappaqua, NY


Phyllis Lee, Sebring, OH


Julie Warther, Dover, OH


Carolyn Hall, San Francisco, CA


Josephy Robello, Novato, CA


flies wait it out under a cow’s chin spring shower Temple Cone Temple Cone


Temple Cone


heartwood the saw changes its tune Michele L. Harvey Michele L. Harvey


Michele L. Harvey


snow field the earth marked by fallen angels Elizabeth Steinglass Elizabeth Steinglass


Elizabeth Steinglass


setting sun an accordion squeezes the night air June Dowis no moon the click of stilettos on cobblestones Ernest Berry flowing estuary native languages long gone Mike Blottenberger in the hot tub my eyes on her floating breasts Hunters Moon Neal Whitman rosebud unfolding the seed packet left behind in Revelations Scott Mason June Dowis Ernest Berry Mike Blottenberger Neal Whitman Scott Mason


June Dowis


Ernest Berry


Mike Blottenberger


Neal Whitman


Scott Mason


no escaping this moonlight— Pompeii Scott Mason Scott Mason


Scott Mason


river mud the shape of boys Jayne Miller Jayne Miller


Jayne Miller


somewhere becoming rain becoming somewhere Jim Kacian Jim Kacian


Jim Kacian


desert twilight a map with many creases nailed to a cross Garry Gay we huddle over mother’s open grave— lawless winter Anita Curran Guenin a long bus ride the prophetic language of the stops Michael McClintock Garry Gay Anita Curran Guenin Michael McClintock


Garry Gay


Anita Curran Guenin


Michael McClintock


Navajo moon the coyote call not a coyote Garry Gay Garry Gay


Garry Gay


deleting words from the eulogy falling leaves Mark Smith


calla lily the sound of a ladder lengthening Cherie Hunter Day  Cherie Hunter Day 


Cherie Hunter Day 


tasting the well in the water— summer stars Marjorie Buettner Mother’s Day the expiration date on wildflower seeds Carolyn Hall  northern lights . . . the scratchy play of seventy-eights Michele L. Harvey  a recurring escape from my father’s dream Christopher Patchel      the big dipper no matter where I stand       mountain sky Michelle Schaefer summer passing the yard flamingo’s rusty legs  Michelle Schaefer glint of sunlight: the respirator carries on alone Charles Trumbull Marjorie Buettner Carolyn Hall  Michele L. Harvey  Christopher Patchel Michelle Schaefer Michelle Schaefer Charles Trumbull


Marjorie Buettner


Carolyn Hall 


Michele L. Harvey 


Christopher Patchel


Michelle Schaefer


Michelle Schaefer


Charles Trumbull


All Souls Day... my name called from the front gate


autumn an empty booster seat in the barber's window


hunter's cabin: of the woods not of it


end of the walk returning the crow's feather where I found it


cafe for sale— outdoor tables rusting into autumn


day lilies another death date added to the family tree


The house finch has a song for it, morning after snow


crescent moon a bone carver sings to his ancestor


close enough to touch— I let the junco lead me away from its nest


Blowing leaves tempt the old cat, but not enough


ancient mountains . . . runners clearing hurdles on the practice field


Thanksgiving— fifteen minutes of mince pie


blossoms . . . the baby’s bare feet pedal the air


butterfly my attention attention span


one moth a thousand candles light the darkness


trail’s end— my pebble settles the cairn


family reunion— some of the beached kelp in knots


a jar of pennies on the lemonade stand evening cool


lightning . . . the scarecrow's coat sleeve caught in mid-wave


summer's end the hammock turned in on itself


Charcoal Alley— children flick marbles into the light


season of lights the postman leans to the wind


having no thought we've come to see them— dogwoods in bloom Third Place: ($50) C. R. Manley turning tide— placing intact clams back in the water


mallard pair he rocks on her wake


filtering in with the night air a skunk's warning


stone in my pocket— the brook cuts deeper into the mountain


a bee chose the rose I meant to pluck . . . empty vase


soba noodles . . . the new year slips in


hazy dusk . . . no one bothered to plow the graveyard road


child's wake the weight of rain


gunshot the length of the lake


a stick caught on the lip of the dam winter's end


summer stars . . . the old violin goes to the highest bidder


winter drags on . . . I squeeze the last drops from a teabag


distant thunder— a titmouse gives one chirp and falls silent


Alzheimer's birthday each slice of the cake takes part of her name


March winds a decade has passed by your grave


Indian summer a spent salmon washes ashore


after the funeral whiskers still in his razor


the page-finders of my father’s Daily Missal losing their colors


first buds of spring    I change the washer’s setting       to delicate


Among the gravestones with names worn away children play hide ‘n seek


whalebone from a beach near Savoonga— winter rain


All Saints morning a path of trodden leaves


cremated in her favorite kimono— small green plums


             spring rain— the gravedigger latches the door              of his backhoe


spring rain the cat's pink nipples


loon calls my daughter drawing circles near the fire


summer evening— from across the meadow a call to supper


shivering on the roof I rub my palms together meteor shower


    ocean breeze— a strand of seaweed     steadies the kite


autumn rose—      even as I sketch the wind         more petals fall


Humid July— from the stove the smell of old fires


the wind of autumn a homeless man warms himself hand to mouth


broken easel? the front yard blue with wildflowers


heat waves? the hitchhiker shifts her child to the other hip


land's end? sand in each bite of my apple


Indian summer a fish slips through the gill net


     her 18th birthday? for the first time she notices        my silences


spring sunshine       the climbing ivy       filled with sparrows


 meteor shower—     a gentle wave wets our sandals


      mountain hike we drink from the beginning       of a great river


spring sun—        high in his arms              the newborn is shown


      snail— to know            its heart beats too


   lethal injection unable to shut the blind dog's eyes


     end of summer the shape of his feet     in his sneakers


   Geronimo's grave someone has left    plastic flowers


new in town the scent of unknown flowers


foghorns . . . we lower a kayak into the sound


catalog time the garden begins without a seed


new butterfly . . . folded wings lean into the wind


morning overcast a few seeds still dangle from the dandelion


break up I leave behind her butterfly net


walking home barefoot, we enter the shadow of the hill


autumn evening . . . a page of the old book separates from the spine


funeral procession . . . snowflakes blowing into the headlights


autumn evening my hospital window becomes a mirror


storm clouds the cry of a shearwater circles the sky


late into the night we talk of revelations moon through the pines


the kettle whistles . . .            a blur of garden color            on the window


winter beach a piece of driftwood charred at one end


riveredge old growth: a towering window of stars


I'm caught in it too— the blossom-loosening wind


Over the railroad tracks the slow motion of a snake


The beetle I righted flies straight into a cobweb


leaf in my palm its stem extends my lifeline


about the tree over my small son's grave —tell me


musty smell forgotten . . . deep into the text


that Venus! leading the cupped moon through every turn of the road


"grabs" and "opens" the fist sowing seeds


the river— coming to it with nothing in my hands


deep silence           the orphaned nestlings           this third morning


summer solstice— the long tips of lavender bent by bees


snowbound coloring inside the lines


the dumproad pond tadpoles exit a birdhouse


still sun-warmed . . . the pulled-out scarecrow in my arms


Changing the swallowtail       changed by it            the spring wind


letting the branch go a shower of petals falls on the old woman


toll booth lit for Christmas from my hand to hers warm change


winter seclusion tending all day the small fire


on the path only one of us touched by a falling leaf


winter, bedtime    static flickers        through a white sleeve


warm river— up to our necks in sunset


beneath the ice the waterfall                     still falling


Old garden chair sagging with the weight of a single leaf.


after the stroke. . . watching only the half of your face that smiles


City window mountains and pines etched in frost


Autumn deepens an empty snail shell explored by an ant


early morning sun      scattered on the table           several grains of salt


snowflakes no one will miss melt in her hand


bright leaves     blow through        her dream house


scattering his ashes      the moon           in bits and pieces


on the river       of many names, one cloud       floating


learning too late he didn't like bubinga wood— sun strikes the urn


the war memorial— migrating butterflies cover the names


falling leaves the house comes out of the wood


leaving you— fog on either side of the white heron


Below zero all curled up in the woodpile the skin of a snake


deep winter.                      the armload of firewood                      chills the kitchen


mourning dove calls . . .      my elderly neighbor stills           the sound of her hoeing


August morning— a window washer wiping dust from his sunglasses


snowmelt . . .      she enters      the earth on her knees


an old woolen sweater           taken yarn by yarn                     from the snowbank


a white horse drinks from the acequia           blossoming locust


sunlight shines red through my father's thumb on the steering wheel


          two women crying one giving birth           the other being born


Approaching the family plot . . . my furled umbrella turns into a cane.


Chernobyl victim— fingers pressing the plastic to his wife's caress


                        cloud shadow            long enough to close the poppies


The thick clang of a cowbell the sun deepens


Roses in the smaller room more fragrant


Ninety winters           Spellbound                      Again


silent cathedral      stained-glass apostles      dimming with dusk


          up the path to touch that one oak in last night's dream


dry leaves the old archer curves his eyebrow


soft rain— the new grave looks old


morning sneeze— the guitar in the corner resonates


dusk a lone car going the same way as the river


First days of summer . . .      already the leaves gather          beneath the sycamores


fall leaves the trees the winter sky


so many ways within the waterfall for water to fall


after the rain on my vegetable patch a new crop of stones


frozen in mud by the vacant shanty: lottery ticket


the potter's hands gently shape the vase      out of himself


Watermelon rind, sitting in its own juice the summer sun


figure drawing class— in the model's deepest shadows a stark white string


Ebb tide . . .     a little sea          in the shell


watching rain pouring down . . . pouring down just watching


abandoned store—      large sign reading           WE NEVER CLOSE


a single strand of spider silk      stops her


endlessly becoming, clouds


mime lifting fog


taking time . . . listening to the grocery clerk


in the Yukon sleeping with one eye shut the summer night


in soap bubbles again and again his face is broken


yard sale, sunlight filling mason jars


leaving home . . . the smell of smoke from old brick chimneys


frozen pond— white antlers rise through the ice


June night my mother alone with her cancer


     at dinner biting into the roast beef . . .      the butcher's thumb nail


phoning the neighbors their real voices through the open window


repeating the lecture his eyes following the window-cleaner's blade


Tools rusting Unused on the work bench A faucet dripping


full moon       peering into the half-built house


dusk drawing the pond's depth to the surface


old woman, wrapping her cat's gifts —centering the bows


on the way to work a hot air balloon up in the mist


this heat;      the dog's tail           the only breeze


                light up under the gull's wing:               sunrise


second husband painting the fence the same green


such coolness the snail stretches its neck


the one legged bird that deep bend before taking off


bird song lost in bird song


walking in on her dead eyes reflecting           snowfall


in the sea the fireworks rising


bird feeder untouched . . .      alone again


circling each thigh      cool of the night river


     small child afraid to throw away     his Church Bulletin


     in utter stillness the incense           changes direction


early spring sun— the spinster combs out her hair for nesting birds


canyon: at the very edge           riversound


Out of its slipper      her bare foot talking           under the table


      Burial prayers grandson playing hide and seek       behind the stones


between the fireflies the changing shape of darkness


My father's hammer warm again in my hand


under trees and sky      the baby studies      her hands


migrating geese— once there was so much to say


sound of her voice carrying eggs across the ice


moving with the clock tower's shadow the flower lady


heart drawn in dust by the old Indian . . . rain


whispered dusk—       a fox picks its way            across the ice


mist lifting the loon's cry


snowman's eye sinking in the spring rain


Autumn afternoon: I stand on the shadow of the sparrow


ten below zero: man and boy walk through their breath to read old tombstones


hot wind the roadrunner's beak opens and closes


Blackbirds descend through the floaters in this eye


the old man closes the shadow in his hand


spring drizzle rounding the thorn a drop of light


              horizon wild swan drifting through       the woman's body


deserted wharf the mime bows to the moon


a spider's web across the windharp the silence


under the back steps      catfish still flop in the pail—           the long August night


horns fold at my shadow's touch; brown slug


      early April rain that woman fills every jar,     seals them forever


dead mynah bird . . . with each passing car its wing flaps


Picking cotton—       the memory            of birdtracks in the snow


Old tea bag;      tints the moon           slightly


blackened walnut left unopened— winter solstice


Distant woodchopper inside the cabin axbite echoes


    The grey cranes at dusk— bending in a line along      the crooked fenceposts


checking for water the woman finds a full moon trapped in the cistern


Old woman, rain in the eye of her needle


The path shorter now, underfoot the crumbling leaves; the child runs ahead


cry of the peacock widens the crack in the adobe wall


fields of snow      not only moonlight           but the moon


cold morning sea— an old man towels himself in the sunlight


fields of corn stretching as far as the eye can see within            a lost child


  crossing the bright sky of a near-sighted swimmer,      the song of a bird


and yet perishable is flesh— a mountain plum


what thing cries out deep inside us cooking the turtle?


Lights out . . . the firefly inside


the wind somewhere else— bird tracks in a light snow


apples cooking: in the aroma pictures of my mother canning


Dawn      another parting with the moon


back and forth goldfish hot & humid afternoon


the child points at the moon and says, "bird"


one seagull on a shaft of air; dawn


Lean man Carving The tree's dream.


morning-glory folds into herself into her folds


from behind me the shadow of the ticket-taker comes down the aisle


Walking to Work Pages lap at your feet The quick eye holds up the news to the day


Part of a dog walking by upside down in the roadside puddle


Where the ripple was the fisherman casts his line; another ripple


Quiet strokes of night swimmer: the slap of beaver tails . . .


never expecting the lilies in November nor the small coffin


      the room's smallness fills with light       this morning of snow


The way of the conch— blueing in the sea, and echoing in the wind


leaving      all the morning glories      closed


Old frog     up to his ears         in moonlight


reaching into sky the girl breaks the wish— bone of geese


in a dark bag     onions           sprouting


still lake— a hawk makes off with its image


   skiers!   standing on the wind


